## APIs

#### Relationship between an API and SDK
An API is a set of routines and tools for building applications. In essence API specifies how the software components should interact. An effective API will make it easier for the developer to program the program they are developing. It does this by providing all the building blocks for the programmer and all they have to do is put the blocks together. Commonly an API is known as an application program interface which is a set of protocols and routines that is used to build game, apps or other APIs.

An SDK is like a workshop as it contains the necessary tools to aid you when coding. A few tools it provides are code samples, libraries and relevant documentation. It helps developers build things such as documentation, programming tools and APIs. An SDK can decrease a projects overall time by a lot as it helps the developers save a lot of time and become more efficient while working and using the SDK. Typically, an SDK is a software development tool that allows developers to create apps and game using a certain software package, video game console, hardware platform and framework.

An API is a tool or building block that helps developers code/program more efficiently. An SDK is a kit or workshop that contains tools that will help developers code. Additionally, an API is like a recipe in the way that it works as it contains a set of programming instructions and standards we use to access an online tool or database. Additionally, a software development kit is a kit that contains all of the tools and protocols to aid developers when building programming tools, APIs, documentation, games and apps.

#### The need for APIs
APIs are needed because they are used to do a specific job, they save developers huge amounts of time by doing small tasks quickly, that would take a person hours to do. Additionally, they allow developers to do things that they just wouldn’t be able to do if APIs didn’t exist. Like scrapping a whole website and putting that information into a PDF folder which would normally take hours. Also, some more reasons we need them are in our day to day lives on our phone, using social media would not be the same without APIs and would be nowhere near as fast or efficient as it is now. When you check what time your train or bus is coming using your app is all done by an APIs which is important to a lot of business men and women. Businesses can benefit a lot from using APIs, a couple ways they can or how it can benefit them are it will increase efficiency of the business overall as they are able to get better projects out in a quicker time period due to the help an API can provide which come on to my next point. Time, APIs will decrease project time and how long jobs within the business take in general, as they are thousands of APIs that can we applied within everyday life, work, and home to benefit us all.

#### Improving an application using an API
On the google play store there is a game called Asphalt 9. It is a racing game where you can complete stunts, use nitros and race other online players. Using the API google maps you could turn the game into a car version of Pokémon go. Where you would walk around in real time searching for cars on the game while walking around your town or city. This would improve them game giving people the chance to go out and find the cars and then if they wanted to them could go back home and race they cars they have found, additionally, it gives players the option to trade and sell cars on an online market which I believe to be a lot more enjoyable.

#### Examples of APIs:
- Google maps - A web mapping made my google which gives users a 360-degree view of an area such as a street or town.
- LinkedIn - A social networking website used for the business community, used for businesses to communicate with potential staff and other businesses.
- Houndify - Is a platform which allows anyone to add a smart voice enabled conversational interface.
- NASA's API
- Gmail - A emailing service made by google which allows people to communicate which each other where ever they are.
- GitHub - Is a repository hosting service where businesses, students and anyone that has access to the internet can upload work, help sheets and projects onto a read me document for either everyone to see or just your friends.
- Twitter - Is a social media platform where anyone can add upload a 'tweet' containing any information they would like to share with their followers.
- Slack -  Is a cloud-based tool that helps teams collaborate with each other using Slack's tools and services.
- Facebook - Is a social media platform where anyone can upload pictures and their thought to their friends and family.

#### Assessing a range of APIs for a platform
On a daily basis we all use several APIs without even noticing, a few of these are forms of social media that we use for scrolling the time away for hours. For example, we have Twitter. Twitter is a social media platform that allows celebrities to connect with fans, the average person to speak to friends and family, upload pictures and keep up with the gossip that goes on within the news and celebrity world. An example of an API within Twitter is the search option. By typing anything you want into the search bar Twitter will show you everything they have on that subject, person or place on their site. Additionally, if you were to search Call of Duty it would bring back the most popular tweets recently on Call of Duty, the latest tweet, accounts called Call of Duty, pictures that contain the hashtag Call of Duty, videos that contain the hashtag and finally any news Twitter can find on Call of Duty. As you can see the search tool is very useful and is an incredible tool to have. Additionally, it gives users millions of tweets, pictures, profiles, photos and news on any topic they want to know about which is a huge plus of using Twitter. The search option's code will have functions that when given a word or phrase will pull everything that function can find on the word that has been chosen.

Secondly, Twitter has a notification API. This API will have its own tab where it will compile events such as people you follow following other people, people you follow being followed, people tagging or liking your tweets and by tapping on one of the 'highlights' it gives you videos and pictures based on the 'highlight' you have tapped. For example, you may find your favourite singer has been followed by another famous singer and if you tap on one of their highlights in your notifications tab it will bring up pictures and videos related to what you have just tapped. The notification ability on twitter will contain (within its code) functions that allow the use to receive notifications, by collecting everything that has happened to the users account and showing it within one place.

Thirdly, an extremely helpful API that twitter uses is the text message API. This means users don’t have to be connected to the internet to see and send tweets to their account. Users can send and receive tweets via text message meaning wherever you are you're able to keep up to date, also helping people out that have small amounts of data and don’t want to use it all up tweeting. This API's code will contain functions that allow the use o text tweets instead of needing wife. The user can send tweets, receive tweets and message other users the functions within the code, bypassing the need for Wi-Fi___33.

#### White box testing
There are a few steps when it comes to White box testing. firstly, the tester will normally get a feel for the source code they are working with if they don’t already know it. As white box testing is the testing of the inside of an application the tester needs to be very knowledgeable within the language the code is written in. Additionally, the tester must be up to date with secure coding practices, so they can tell when the code is up to a high, secure standard. One of the most common reasons people white box test is to test security protocols of the code to make sure a hacker cannot get in and inject it with malicious code. Lastly, the developer/tester will test the codes flow and structure they test this by writing code that will test the code itself. This part is often done by the developer as you will need intricate knowledge about the code itself. Another way to test the code is to manually test it yourself or by using the common way trial and error.

#### Black box testing
Black box testing is also known as behavioural testing, is a testing method where the tester does not know the internal structure, design and implementation of the item being tested, and these tests are normally functional though can also be non-functional. The name is a description of the item that the tester is testing as it is like a black box where the tester cannot see what is inside the item. Within black box testing the tester will be looking for interface errors, behaviour or performance errors, errors in data structures, external database access, initialization errors, termination errors and incorrect or missing functions.
